[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's talk now about
an extra feature that's included with
interpolated literals.
That is probably not terribly self-obvious
what this is or what it's for.
It is possible for
me to put an expression directly in
front of the interpolated literal.
And that expression will act as,
essentially, a function call.
So you're thinking about
what is the foo function?
It would be a function that
we would have to define.
And you might assume that
that function would receive
the interpolated string
literal as its argument.
It's not really quite that, it's sort
of like that but not quite, okay?
So let me talk to you about what
this foo function would do.
This foo function is going to
receive as its first parameter,
as its first argument.
By convention, we like to call it strings.
I mean,
you can call these whatever you want.
But by convention,
most people call it strings.
Cuz what it is, is an array of all
of the string literals from here.
So it is gonna be an array
that includes that string, and
that string.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
that string, and that string, so it's
gonna have four string values in it, okay?
It's an array of four string values.
>> Kyle Simpson: The next
thing that we would get, obviously,
we're gonna get these values in,
you might think we would
get a values array.
For some crazy reason, they decided not to
collect all the values up into an array.
So what you actually get is value1,
value2,
value3 all the way out to however
many values that are actually were,
which is stupid and nobody wants
to deal with those individually.
So we all just collect them up into a
values array using the ...gather operator.
So virtually,
all of these are called tag functions.
Virtually, every tag function you find,
the signature will look almost identical
to that call strings, and then ...values.
Obviously, you can name them
whatever you want, okay?
But what's the purpose of this function?
Well, I can do really evil
stuff like I am evil.
If I return a different value for
example that string and
we ask what's in message,
what do you think is gonna be in message?
The string, I am evil, has absolutely
nothing to do with what we passed in.
I don't think it's a good idea,
but you can.
The point I'm making is that
the tag function serves
kind of like a preprocessor.
It's almost like a macro,
it preprocesses the string before it's
finalized.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which is gonna allow
you to do some, actually,
very interesting things, okay?
Before we talk about the interesting
kind of stuff that we can do with them,
let's just think about what's
the very simplest approach for
me to construct these things together.
For example, let's observe that
the strings array is gonna
have four values in it,
how many values are gonna be in the values
array?
>> Kyle Simpson: Three, right?
Four strings, three values.
Even if we had an expression at
the very beginning of our literal,
there would still be an empty
string in the strings array there.
And even if we had
an expression at the very end,
there would still be
an empty string there.
So it will always be the case
that the strings array
has one more value than the values array.
That is an invariant,
it will always be true or
always be one more string
than there is a value.
So you can probably realize if I
had four strings and three values,
what do I need to do to them?
Loop over them and
interpolate them, right?
Concatenate them together.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the pass through
version of foo that is the version of
foo that acts as if it's not even there.
It's to simply loop over the strings
array and interpolate in the values,
totally untouched.
So let's write that logic, we'll have
a string that we start out as empty.
We do a for loop, for (var i=0;
i<strings.length; i++).
Now, what we're gonna do is
you're gonna say if (i > 0) that
is I'm already done the first string.
Then I wanna include str += values[i- 1].
So I'll include values of 0 after I've
done strings of 0 let alone strings of 1.
And then I'm going to include,
>> Kyle Simpson: Strings of i.
Finally, return the string.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
this is the most basic, simplified
kind of pass through template tag
function that you could define.
>> Kyle Simpson: You following
me?
>> Kyle Simpson: Just to test it,
we'll grab that, come over here
to the browser and run it, msg.
There, we got the same message, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: But
let's do something
slightly more interesting.
How about in a case when
we're gonna include a value,
what if we did something like this?
What if we said if (typeof values[i-1]
== "number")?
>> Kyle Simpson: What
if we,
>> Kyle Simpson: Did some formating of it?
>> Kyle Simpson: For example,
gave it 2 decimal places.
>> Kyle Simpson: Do you
see what I did there?
So I'm checking one of those values.
If one of those values
comes in as a number,
I wanna format that using the toFixed
method, which gives me rounded to 2
decimal places with zero-padding
on the right if I need it.
Let's try it now.
>> Kyle Simpson: You spot the difference?
Now, we formatted our currency correctly.
So I could call this tag function
currency for example, okay?
And there's lots of more sophistication
that you could probably start to envision
for what you might do
in terms of formatting.
Either strings or the values that
are being interpolated in, or
in both in all kinds of different ways.
As a matter of fact,
people have already written hundreds
of different tag functions.
There are libraries that include all
different manners of tag functions that do
all different kinds of things that you can
think of [COUGH] to do various formatting.
For example, internationalization or
localization of times and numbers.
Or swapping in terminology like we
said with internationalization,
it's all different kinds of
things that you could do.
So basically,
what you end up writing is this code,
that library utility is written once.
But anywhere in your code,
you just say currency.
Instead of telling it how to do all
the formatting of the currency,
you've abstracted that away,
what you have is a declarative string.
You say I want my string to be
formatted with currency, or
I want my string to be formatted with
internationalization, or I want this
string to be formatted with localization.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
it's a declarative form to hide or to
separate out the imperative logic of how
to do the processing from the usage of it.
>> Speaker 2: Is there
an easy way to chain them?
>> Kyle Simpson: The chaining doesn't
happen at the call sign,
the chaining happens through regular
function composition techniques.
So you could take two tag functions and
chain the two together.
But that would be through function
composition, not at the call sign.
>> Speaker 3: [COUGH] If orderNumber
wasn't a string,
how would it know of the difference?
>> Kyle Simpson: It wouldn't,
like I said it's just a simple example,
>> Kyle Simpson: To point out the types
of things that we could do, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: As a matter of fact,
people have gone really far with this.
Turns out this is
a Turing complete system.
So you could actually invent an entire
programming language as a tag function.
And it's been done on
more than one occasion.
How many of you know what JSX is?
It's the nonstandard standard extension
to JavaScript that allows you to
do HTML tags directly in your JavaScript.
Somebody got the bright idea,
what if I make a tag function that allows
me inside of an actual standard template
literal to interpolate all of that
HTML syntax and do the same thing?
So they made a tag function for JSX.
So now, you can use JSX and
all you gotta do is wrap backticks in
the JSX tag function in front of it.
And now, it's standard and
doesn't need any transpolation for
example.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
there's all kinds of sophisticated
things that you can envision doing with
the preprocessing on your strings.
>> Kyle Simpson: One of the guys that's
on the committee, Alan, he was the former
editor of the editor of the ES6 spec.
His favorite usage of this is to use
these to create regular expressions
that you can do like whitespace, and
other fancy stuff like comments.
So you can make your regular
expressions as a template literal
instead of in the regular expressions
syntax, which is a lot more limited.
[COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
any questions about that
general process of looping and
interpolating with the string function or
the tag function?